docs(feature-flags): add comprehensive guide for cleaning up stale flags (#16439)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/feature-flags/cleaning-up-stale-flags.mdx

---
title: Cleaning up stale feature flags
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

> Feature flags accumulate, and every active flag still costs money even if no code explicitly checks it. The web SDK evaluates all active flags by default on load, and server-side calls to `getAllFlags()` include them too. Flags that were fully rolled out, linked to completed experiments, or simply forgotten keep generating costs while adding clutter to your codebase. Cleaning them up reduces your bill, removes tech debt, and makes your remaining flags easier to reason about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature flags accumulate, and you're billed for every active flag even if no code explicitly checks it. The web SDK evaluates all active flags by default on load, and server-side calls to `getAllFlags()` include them too. Flags that are fully rolled out, linked to completed experiments, or simply forgotten keep generating costs while adding clutter to your codebase. Cleaning them up reduces your bill, removes tech debt, and makes your remaining flags easier to reason about.
```

This guide covers all the ways to find and remove stale flags, from fully manual to fully automated. Pick what fits your workflow. You can also paste this page's URL or contents into any AI coding agent as a prompt to guide the cleanup process.

## What makes a flag stale

PostHog considers a flag stale when it's no longer doing useful work:

- **Not evaluated in 30+ days**, meaning the SDKs aren't checking this flag anymore.
- **100% rolled out for 30+ days** with no property filters, so it's returning the same value for everyone. The flag check is equivalent to a hardcoded value.

Disabled flags (`active: false`) are not considered stale since they were intentionally turned off.

You can see stale flags in the PostHog UI by filtering the feature flags list to show only stale flags.

## The correct cleanup order

> <CalloutBox icon="IconWarning" title="Always clean up code first, then disable the flag in PostHog" type="caution">

Reviewer: We may not need a callout here since this is explicitly stated right below. Maybe just replace this with a normal paragraph.

> Order of operation matter when cleaning up stale flags. A 100% rollout doesn't mean the flag is safe to disable. If your code still checks it, disabling it in PostHog turns the feature off for everyone. Remove the flag from your code first.

Author: Thanks! Thought of the callout as a way to grab someone's eyes that may be skimming, since this is a pretty bad failure mode

A 100% rollout doesn't mean the flag is safe to disable. If your code still checks it, disabling it in PostHog turns the feature off for everyone. Remove the flag from your code first.

</CalloutBox>

The safe sequence is:

1. **Identify** stale flags in PostHog
2. **Remove** flag references from your codebase
3. **Deploy** the code changes
4. **Disable** the flag in PostHog (now it's a no-op because nothing checks it)

> ## Finding stale flags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Finding stale flags
```

### In the PostHog app

Filter the feature flags list by status to see stale flags. For each flag, you can see when it was last evaluated, its rollout percentage, and whether it's tied to an experiment.

### With PostHog AI

Ask PostHog AI in the app:

```text
Show me all stale feature flags.
```

```text
Which feature flags are fully rolled out and safe to clean up?
```

PostHog AI can also generate cleanup prompts for your codebase. See [Manage flags with PostHog AI](/docs/feature-flags/manage-flags-ai).

### With the MCP server

If you use an AI coding agent with the [PostHog MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol), ask it to list stale flags:

```text
List all stale feature flags in my project.
```

The MCP server calls `feature-flag-get-all` with `active: "STALE"` and returns the results. This works in any MCP client like Claude Code, Cursor, Windsurf, VS Code, and others. See [Manage flags with MCP](/docs/feature-flags/create-flags-mcp).

> ### With the API

Reviewer: Maybe we don't need this. I just don't think this is contributing much compared to the other methods and it's making this page, maybe more busy than it has to. Our API tends to be a wee bit anooying to use anyway.

Hit the feature flags endpoint with the `active=STALE` filter:

```bash
curl -s "https://us.posthog.com/api/projects/<PROJECT_ID>/feature_flags/?active=STALE&limit=100" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <PERSONAL_API_KEY>" | python3 -m json.tool
```

Replace `us.posthog.com` with `eu.posthog.com` or your self-hosted URL. Get your personal API key from [project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project#personal-api-keys).

The response includes each flag's key, rollout configuration, last evaluation date, and experiment associations.

> ## Removing flags from code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Removing flags from code
```

The flag was at 0% or had no release conditions, so the feature was never active. Keep the else/fallback path.

**Before:**
```js
if (posthog.isFeatureEnabled('abandoned-feature')) {
  renderNewThing()
} else {
  renderOldThing()
}
```

**After:**
```js
renderOldThing()
```

### Partial rollout flags

The flag had some targeting but wasn't fully rolled out. You'll need to check the flag's intent to decide which code path to keep. These need manual review.

### What to search for

Search your codebase for the flag key as a string. Common SDK patterns:

| Language | Patterns to search for |
| --- | --- |
| JavaScript/TypeScript | `isFeatureEnabled('key')`, `getFeatureFlag('key')`, `useFeatureFlag('key')` |
| Python | `feature_enabled('key')`, `get_feature_flag('key')` |
| Ruby | `is_feature_enabled('key')`, `get_feature_flag('key')` |
| Go | `IsFeatureEnabled("key")`, `GetFeatureFlag("key")` |
| Other SDKs | Search for the flag key as a string literal |

Also search for the flag key in constants, config files, test fixtures, and comments.

After removing flag references, clean up any dead imports, unused variables, and empty blocks left behind.

### Using the VS Code extension

> The [PostHog VS Code extension](/docs/vscode-extension/stale-flag-cleanup) automates this for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases. It uses AST-based scanning to find stale flag references and can remove them while preserving the correct code paths. It handles batch cleanup across multiple files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [PostHog VS Code extension](/docs/vscode-extension/stale-flag-cleanup) automates this for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases. It uses AST-based scanning to find stale flag references and can remove them while preserving the correct code paths. It handles batch cleanup across multiple files.

The AST-based clean up is not perfect, check the diffs carefully before committing.
```

### Using an AI coding agent

> Paste this prompt into any AI coding agent (Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot, etc.) and adapt the flag list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the list of flags to update and paste this prompt into any AI coding agent (Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot, etc.):
```

```text
Find and remove all references to these feature flags in the codebase.
For each flag, search for all usages including isFeatureEnabled,
getFeatureFlag, useFeatureFlag, feature_enabled, and the flag key
as a string literal in constants and configs.

## Fully rolled out – remove the flag check, KEEP the enabled code path
- new-checkout
- beta-dashboard-v2

For each: remove the if-check and keep the body. If there's an else
branch, remove the else branch entirely.

## Not rolled out – remove the flag check AND the enabled code path
- abandoned-feature

For each: remove the if-check AND its body. Keep only the else/fallback.

After cleanup, remove any dead code branches and unused imports.
```

Adapt the flag names, rollout states, and SDK patterns to your codebase.

> ## Disabling flags in PostHog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Disabling flags in PostHog
```

After your code changes are deployed and you've verified everything works, disable the cleaned-up flags in PostHog.

**Disable vs delete:**
- **Disable** (`active: false`) – the flag stops being evaluated but the configuration is preserved. If something was missed in the code cleanup, re-enabling is instant.

- **Delete** – a soft-delete. Keeps the flag list clean, but re-enabling requires recreating the flag. Better for flags you're confident you'll never need again.

### In the PostHog app

Go to feature flags, select the flag, and toggle it off.

### With PostHog AI

```text
Disable the feature flag "new-checkout".
```

### With the MCP server

```text
Disable the feature flag "new-checkout" by setting active to false.
```

> ### With the API

Reviewer: same as above. This feels like a process people should be doing either by hand or with an LLM. I'm not a huge fan of the API path 🤔

```bash
curl -X PATCH "https://us.posthog.com/api/projects/<PROJECT_ID>/feature_flags/<FLAG_ID>/" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <PERSONAL_API_KEY>" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"active": false}'
```

To disable multiple flags at once, use a script:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

POSTHOG_HOST="https://us.posthog.com"
PROJECT_ID="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
API_KEY="<YOUR_PERSONAL_API_KEY>"

disable_flag() {
  local flag_id="$1" flag_key="$2"
  echo "Disabling: $flag_key (id: $flag_id)"
  curl -s -X PATCH "${POSTHOG_HOST}/api/projects/${PROJECT_ID}/feature_flags/${flag_id}/" \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer ${API_KEY}" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"active": false}' > /dev/null
}

disable_flag "12345" "new-checkout"
disable_flag "12346" "beta-dashboard-v2"

echo "Done."
```

> ## Automating cleanup with CI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Automating cleanup with CI
```
